_docs/controls/link.md, before:

---
title: Link
codename: LinkLabel
category: Controls
---
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/adjust-colors.png)

## When to use

<p class="noanchor" style="margin-top: 25px; margin-bottom: 15px;">Use a link for:</p>

Local navigation between pages of the same window. If a link opens another window, it is not a local navigation but an action, see _Secondary actions_ below.  
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/deployment-server.png)
*This option is in the Settings dialog. “Configure servers” opens another page of the same dialog.*
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/color-scheme-by-scope.png)
*Do not use a button to navigate to another page of a dialog.*    

External navigation to web resources. 
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/BOM.png)

Secondary actions in packed or small UI areas. Action links can be of two types&nbsp;— <span style="white-space: nowrap;"><i>button-links</i></span> and _drop-down_ links. See below for [how to use]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/link/#action-links).
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/setup-sdk.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/commit-configure.png)


## How to use

### Writing guidelines

Use sentence capitalization.
 
Add an ellipsis to a button-link if it opens another UI area where input is possible. See examples for the [Button]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/button/#button_ellipsis).

Do not use words like “navigate” or “click here”. A link implies navigation or clicking:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/proxy-settings.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/download-drivers.png)

When possible, replace “Learn more” and other generic phrases with more informative ones:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/closure-linter.png)


### Link as a part of text
A link can be a part of a checkbox or radio button label or of any stand-alone text, like text in an [empty state]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/empty_state/) or in [context help]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/context_help/):
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/use-color-scheme-font.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/learn-what-is-logged.png)
Make a link the minimum phrase that is enough to understand what will happen without reading the whole text:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/long-link.png)
*"What is logged" is enough to understand what information will be opened.*


### Link in a tree or table    
A link can be used in some but not all items of a tree or table:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/JSHint.png) 

If a link appears in all items of a tree or table: 
* If this is a button-link, use a toolbar button instead. 
* If this is a drop-down link, use a separate table column of drop-down cells instead (see the Editing Values section in [Table]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/table/)).
* If moving a link to a separate table column breaks meaningful formatting, leave as is:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/multirepo-push.png)
*Links in the “Push Commits” window tree have the following format: “[remote repository] : [branch]”. Moving these links to two separate columns would break formatting that is meaningful here: it helps understand the relation between the two links. In such case, it is better to leave repeating links in the same column.*


### External link icon
External links are accompanied by an arrow icon. It shows that the user will switch to a browser and lose the current context.
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/BOM.png)

<div class="code-block__wrapper">{% highlight java %}LinkLabel<Object> linkLabel = new LinkLabel<>(text, AllIcons.Ide.External_link_arrow, (_0, _1) -> BrowserUtil.browse(link));    
linkLabel.setIconTextGap(0);
linkLabel.setHorizontalTextPosition(SwingConstants.LEFT);{% endhighlight %}</div>

An exception is a help topic link in [empty states]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/empty_state/). The help icon already hints that this is an external help resource so the arrow icon is unnecessary:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/database-tw-segment.png)


## Action links

_Button-links_ produce an immediate action or open a new window. They appear as a stand-alone element or inside regular text:        
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/setup-sdk.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/add-java-application.png)
    
_Drop-down links_ show a [context menu]({{site.baseurl}}/components/context_menu/) or a [popup]({{site.baseurl}}/components/popup/) menu. They only appear as a stand-alone element:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/commit-configure.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/live-templates.png)
Use `com.intellij.ui.components.labels.DropDownLink` to implement a drop-down link.

Do **not** use an action link when an action is primary or when a UI is not constrained. Use a [button]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/button/) or a [drop-down list]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/drop_down/) instead. These controls can be selected from the keyboard, are bigger and easier to click and more common for a desktop UI.
<p class="label incorrect">Incorrect</p> ![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/adroid-sdk-incorrect.png)        
<p class="label correct">Correct</p> ![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/adroid-sdk-correct.png)
*Even though the “Edit” action is not primary, there is plenty of space to place a button.*

**Usage examples**
<table ><col width="400 px">      
  <tr>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/reset-link.png" style="margin-top: 4px"> </td>
    <td> <p style="color: #999999; font-size: 13px; line-height: 23px">The "Reset" action is a link for two reasons: <br>1) the action appears only when the default value in the field is changed and reverting to a&nbsp;default is considered a rare scenario; <br>2) a lightweight link fits better than a button in this busy layout. </p> </td>                
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/notification.png" style="margin-top: 4px"> </td>
    <td> <p style="color: #999999; font-size: 13px; line-height: 23px">In global notifications, actions are made links because the area is small and buttons would take too much space and attract unnecessary attention. </p> </td>                
  </tr>  
</table>

![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/tooltip-disclosure.png)
<p class="noanchor" style="color: #999999; font-size: 13px; line-height: 23px">In tooltips, links are used to show additional text because tooltips are usually small. In a dialog where space is not constrained, use a <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/components/group_header/">collapsible group header</a> to invoke additional UI components.</p>

## Placement
Lay out button-links as buttons and dropdown-links as combo boxes. See [Layout]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/layout).

<!--
<br/>
<br/>
<table>
<col width="130px">
<tr>
    <td> <p style="margin-top: 16px"> Horizontal insets </p>  </td>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/inset-link-after.png" style="margin-left: 17px; margin-top: 0px">
         <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/insets-tree.png" style="margin-left: 17px; margin-top: 0px"> 
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td> Vertical inset </td>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/inset-link-below.png" style="margin-left: 0px; margin-top: 4px"> </td>
</tr>
</table>
-->

Commit message:

Add: links are activated with Space

_docs/controls/link.md, after:

---
title: Link
codename: LinkLabel
category: Controls
---
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/adjust-colors.png)

## When to use

<p class="noanchor" style="margin-top: 25px; margin-bottom: 15px;">Use a link for:</p>

Local navigation between pages of the same window. If a link opens another window, it is not a local navigation but an action, see _Secondary actions_ below.  
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/deployment-server.png)
*This option is in the Settings dialog. “Configure servers” opens another page of the same dialog.*
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/color-scheme-by-scope.png)
*Do not use a button to navigate to another page of a dialog.*    

External navigation to web resources. 
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/BOM.png)

Secondary actions in packed or small UI areas. Action links can be of two types&nbsp;— <span style="white-space: nowrap;"><i>button-links</i></span> and _drop-down_ links. See below for [how to use]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/link/#action-links).
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/setup-sdk.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/commit-configure.png)


## How to use

### Writing guidelines

Use sentence capitalization.
 
Add an ellipsis to a button-link if it opens another UI area where input is possible. See examples for the [Button]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/button/#button_ellipsis).

Do not use words like “navigate” or “click here”. A link implies navigation or clicking:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/proxy-settings.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/download-drivers.png)

When possible, replace “Learn more” and other generic phrases with more informative ones:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/closure-linter.png)


### Link as a part of text
A link can be a part of a checkbox or radio button label or of any stand-alone text, like text in an [empty state]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/empty_state/) or in [context help]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/context_help/):
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/use-color-scheme-font.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/learn-what-is-logged.png)
Make a link the minimum phrase that is enough to understand what will happen without reading the whole text:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/long-link.png)
*"What is logged" is enough to understand what information will be opened.*


### Link in a tree or table    
A link can be used in some but not all items of a tree or table:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/JSHint.png) 

If a link appears in all items of a tree or table: 
* If this is a button-link, use a toolbar button instead. 
* If this is a drop-down link, use a separate table column of drop-down cells instead (see the Editing Values section in [Table]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/table/)).
* If moving a link to a separate table column breaks meaningful formatting, leave as is:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/multirepo-push.png)
*Links in the “Push Commits” window tree have the following format: “[remote repository] : [branch]”. Moving these links to two separate columns would break formatting that is meaningful here: it helps understand the relation between the two links. In such case, it is better to leave repeating links in the same column.*


### External link icon
External links are accompanied by an arrow icon. It shows that the user will switch to a browser and lose the current context.
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/BOM.png)

<div class="code-block__wrapper">{% highlight java %}LinkLabel<Object> linkLabel = new LinkLabel<>(text, AllIcons.Ide.External_link_arrow, (_0, _1) -> BrowserUtil.browse(link));    
linkLabel.setIconTextGap(0);
linkLabel.setHorizontalTextPosition(SwingConstants.LEFT);{% endhighlight %}</div>

An exception is a help topic link in [empty states]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/empty_state/). The help icon already hints that this is an external help resource so the arrow icon is unnecessary:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/database-tw-segment.png)


## Action links

_Button-links_ produce an immediate action or open a new window. They appear as a stand-alone element or inside regular text:        
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/setup-sdk.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/add-java-application.png)
    
_Drop-down links_ show a [context menu]({{site.baseurl}}/components/context_menu/) or a [popup]({{site.baseurl}}/components/popup/) menu. They only appear as a stand-alone element:
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/commit-configure.png)
![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/live-templates.png)
Use `com.intellij.ui.components.labels.DropDownLink` to implement a drop-down link.

Do **not** use an action link when an action is primary or when a UI is not constrained. Use a [button]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/button/) or a [drop-down list]({{site.baseurl}}/controls/drop_down/) instead. These controls can be selected from the keyboard, are bigger and easier to click and more common for a desktop UI.
<p class="label incorrect">Incorrect</p> ![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/adroid-sdk-incorrect.png)        
<p class="label correct">Correct</p> ![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/adroid-sdk-correct.png)
*Even though the “Edit” action is not primary, there is plenty of space to place a button.*

**Usage examples**
<table ><col width="400 px">      
  <tr>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/reset-link.png" style="margin-top: 4px"> </td>
    <td> <p style="color: #999999; font-size: 13px; line-height: 23px">The "Reset" action is a link for two reasons: <br>1) the action appears only when the default value in the field is changed and reverting to a&nbsp;default is considered a rare scenario; <br>2) a lightweight link fits better than a button in this busy layout. </p> </td>                
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/notification.png" style="margin-top: 4px"> </td>
    <td> <p style="color: #999999; font-size: 13px; line-height: 23px">In global notifications, actions are made links because the area is small and buttons would take too much space and attract unnecessary attention. </p> </td>                
  </tr>  
</table>

![]({{site.baseurl}}/images/link/tooltip-disclosure.png)
<p class="noanchor" style="color: #999999; font-size: 13px; line-height: 23px">In tooltips, links are used to show additional text because tooltips are usually small. In a dialog where space is not constrained, use a <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/components/group_header/">collapsible group header</a> to invoke additional UI components.</p>


## Placement
Lay out button-links as buttons and dropdown-links as combo boxes. See [Layout]({{site.baseurl}}/principles/layout).


## Built-in behavior
A focused link is activated from the keyboard with <kbd>Space</kbd>.


<!--
<br/>
<br/>
<table>
<col width="130px">
<tr>
    <td> <p style="margin-top: 16px"> Horizontal insets </p>  </td>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/inset-link-after.png" style="margin-left: 17px; margin-top: 0px">
         <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/insets-tree.png" style="margin-left: 17px; margin-top: 0px"> 
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td> Vertical inset </td>
    <td> <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/link/inset-link-below.png" style="margin-left: 0px; margin-top: 4px"> </td>
</tr>
</table>
-->
